## Donations List Website

Current status: Not being done actively, so a backlog is
accumulating. I plan to resume recovery of this around March/April
2021.

Total estimate: 2 to 4 hours per week

Commits: https://github.com/vipulnaik/donations/commits

Regular tasks:

* Update Open Phil grantees (once per week). Can the frequency be
  changed? Changing the frequency doesn't affect the amount of work,
  except switching costs. At weekly frequency, switching costs are a
  small enough fraction of actual work.

Frequently occurring tasks:

* Update grantee information for other donors.
* Add some other documents as I notice them.
* Coordinate improvements made by Issa and update live database to
  reflect those improvements

## Org Watch

Currrent status: Following the plan as stated here, roughly. I expect
the kind of work to change around April 2021 once Sebastian is caught
up with the current round of data entry work.

Total estimate: 1 to 2 hours per month

Frequently occurring tasks:

* Keep an eye on Sebastian's work at
  https://github.com/riceissa/aiwatch/commits/sebastian and ask and
  answer questions.

## Diet Watch

Forthcoming!

## Contract work for Vipul Naik

Total estimate: 3 to 5 hours per month

Commits: https://github.com/vipulnaik/contractwork/commits

* Monthly update for Issa: This usually takes about 20 to 30 minutes
  of my time, plus some time of Issa's sending me his hours and date
  ranges per task.
  
* Monthly update for Sebastian: I finalize timeline payments
  tentatively made during the month during this time. This usually
  takes 30 to 45 minutes of my time.

* Review and tentative pending payments for completed timelines and
  expansions: This can take 1 to 3 hours per month depending on the
  completion schedule of timelines.

## BART

Total estimate: 20 minutes every 3 months. Work done every 3 months,
to add in data for the 3 most recent montths into bart.vipulnaik.com

In theory this could be done monthly; however, given the low traffic
to this site, I have decided to just update once every 3 months.

Details: https://github.com/vipulnaik/bart/blob/master/monthly-update-process.md

Commits: https://github.com/vipulnaik/bart/commits

## Wikipedia Views

Total estimate: 10 minutes per month, or a little over 2 minutes per
week on average. Work done once a month, to update month information
and start jobs to populate data for most recent month

Commits: https://github.com/vipulnaik/wikipediaviews/commits

Can the frequency be changed? I'd like to do the updates monthly to
make the site maximally useful.

## SSL certificate updated validity check

Total estimate: 10 minutes every 2 months, or a little over 1 minutes per
week on average.

Can the frequency be changed? We can go to close to 3 months, but that
might be cutting it close if there are genuine renewal issues.

## VPS and software upgrades

Current status: I expect to pick this up in 2021, likely after
finances/taxes!

Total estimate: Variable, can be 1-2 days a year on average. Many
pieces of the task need concentrated time.

Can the frequency be changed? Currently we have no fixed frequency,
and it is flexible to the specific needs/urgency of the time.

## Diet, exercise, and health updates

Current status: Active

Total estimate: 1 to 2 hours per month

Commmits: https://github.com/vipulnaik/diet-exercise-health/commits

Since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic, I have been recording at all
trips outside the house that involve interactions with others at
https://github.com/vipulnaik/diet-exercise-health/blob/master/notes/2020-coronavirus-activity-tracker.md
I update this after every such trip; there are between 5 and 10 such
updates each month.

I also update
https://github.com/vipulnaik/diet-exercise-health/blob/master/sql/supplements.sql
whenever I finish a supplement bottle; this happens around once a month.

## Entertainment and self-education updates

Curent status: Active

Total estimate: 15 minutes to 1 hour per month

Commits: https://github.com/vipulnaik/entertainment-and-self-education/commits

I record in
https://github.com/vipulnaik/entertainment-and-self-education/blob/master/sql/consumption.sql
the completion of video consumptions including MasterClass, Viki,
Netflix, and YouTube (excluding watching/rewatching songs). The amount
recorded per month can vary widely; the range of time accounts for
that variance.

## Personal finances updates

Current status: Active

Total estimate: 1 hour per month, plus an extra hour per quarter and
some further work at year-end (not quantified yet)

Commits: https://github.com/vipulnaik/personal-finances/commits

At the beginning of each month, I update my balances for the end of
the previous month in
https://github.com/vipulnaik/personal-finances/blob/master/sql/balances.sql;
evey quarter, I update accrued expenses in
https://github.com/vipulnaik/personal-finances/blob/master/sql/accrued_expenses.sql
though I sometimes update some accrued expenses more frequently.

## Day summaies updates

Current status: Active

Total estimate: 10 minutes per week

Commits: https://github.com/vipulnaik/daily-updates/commits/master/sql/day_summaries.sql

Every week, I update day summaries for the previous week at
https://github.com/vipulnaik/daily-updates/blob/master/sql/day_summaries.sql
so that https://updates.vipulnaik.com/ has the new data. This process
takes about 10 minutes.

## Subwiki error report checking

I haven't been doing this regularly, in a disciplined fashion. I
expect it to take about 20 minutes per week on average, with some
fluctuation. There may be a few hours of work catching up to the
historically accumulated error reports
