# Standing plan for the next few months

Last major update: July 28, 2021

I use this as a living document for my standing plan for the next
months. I expect to update the document somewhere around once a month;
though possibly less frequently (once in 2 or 3 months is also
okay). My daily updates with summaries at
https://updates.vipulnaik.com/ is a more accurate record of what I
actually did, and I am more committed to keeping that up-to-date.

I started going down to 75% time at work mostly starting July, with a
little bit of a trial period in the period of April to June (most of
it during late May / early June).

## Diet, exercise, and health (August 2021 onward, off and on)

### Dentist trip (scheduled August 11)

I haven't had dental cleaning done since November 2017, and haven't
had a dental checkup since a partial checkup in January 2019 in
response to a toothache. My teeth feel fine but a trip to the dentist
would be nice.

### Eye checkup (not scheduled, vague plans)

I haven't had an eye checkup in over ten years. It would be good to
get one some time this year. It might also shed light on whether my
dislike for bright/artificial lights is due to any eye problems.

### Other rethinking of exercise and measurement tools

I would like to start thinking about regular exercise beyond my daily
jog and crushing exercises -- basically some flexibility-type exercise
(e.g., yoga, tai chi) and possibly also weight training. I will need
to think more about this and introduce gradually.

## Continuation of donations list website (DLW)

I have successfully resumed work on the donations list website (DLW)
and expect to continue on it till at least the end of September, and
probably till the end of 2021.

## Continuation of migration stuff (likely starting July 2021, alternated with DLW)

I have successfully resumed work on migration stuff, mostly in the form
of more work on migration-related timelines. I expect to continue with
this flavor of work till at least September 2021, and probably with
some form of migration-related work (this or something else) till the
end of the year.

## Devops/server maintenance work (deferred to ~January 2022)

UPDATE July 28, 2021: I have decided to defer this work to ~January
2022, by which time I expect to have more free time available for it.

My current Linode setup, and most of my softwares and tools, were last
put together in September 2016. They need an upgrade along several
dimensions; also, I want the next iteration to be less snowflakey so
that it's easier to keep up with upgrades despite limited bandwidth. I
also want to explore cost reduction options based on [preliminary
analysis by
Issa](https://github.com/vipulnaik/working-drafts/issues/6).
