# Things I plan to defer due to the Q1 crunch

As I mention in my [standing
plan](standing-plan-for-the-next-few-months.md), I expect to be more
busy than usual with day job work for the period of 2025-01-27 to
2025-04-20. As a result of this, there are a few things I plan to
defer to the period of May and June of 2025. Deferring these comes
with some costs and risks, and some need for provisional steps to
minimize those risks. I document these below.

## End-of-2024 finances (excluding US tax calculations)

### What I normally do

I normally try to do the finances for the end of a year around
December of that year and January of the next year. This work on
finances gives me clarity on how much I've spent in various expense
categories, and helps me with a financial outlook for the future.

This is separate from the end-of-month balances calculation that I
continue to do (albeit with a bit of delay from the usual each
month). This is a once-a-year process of making sure I have
comprehensively entered all nontrivial expenses of the year and
reconciling my expenses with the balances and tax calculations.

### Why I am deferring

My overall financial situation is relatively stable, and I don't
expect there to be many immediate financial decisions to make until
the end of Q2 2025 that would be meaningfully affected by finishing
these calculations sooner (partly because I'm too busy to make life
changes that would entail making such financial decisions). Thus, this
work is not decision-relevant for the most part.

### How much time I save

I estimate I am saving somewhere around 4 to 8 hours of personal
finances work by deferring this. While it's not a lot of time under
ordinary circumstances, it is a lot in my current time-constrained
situation.

### How I am derisking the deferral

#### Download completed for raw CSVs

One risk of deferring is that the raw data for various accounts
(banks, credit cards, investment accounts) is held for a limited
moving window, that's generally between 1 and 2 years (generally about
18 months).

I removed most of this risk by doing all the dowloads of raw CSVs on
2025-01-03. I did another sanity check on 2025-02-20 comparing the
CSVs for 2023 and 2024 and confirming that I had all the 2024 files
corresponding to the 2023 files. I also eyeballed the contents of the
2024 files and made sure they matched the expectations.

#### Provisional heuristics for other expenses -- assume the upper limit of the range I might decide on

For a few expense categories, I may need to make decisions that would
ideally be informed by having done the 2024 analysis. In such cases, I
will follow these heuristics:

* If I currently think that my budget for the category will be between
  A and B, use B as my guidance.

* In total, aim to not spend more than $500 by 2025-04-20 over and
  above what I could have spent if A were my guidance. (Note that B -
  A may be well over $500/year -- what's important is the absolute
  extra amount I spend by that cutoff date).
