# Personal chores hours

This document attempts to explain trends and components of the hours I
spend that I attribute to personal chores. This complements the
[standing plan](../standing-plan-for-the-next-few-months.md), offering
more of a historical perspective.

## Current status

* When nothing much is going on on the travel, stocking up, and health
  event fronts:

  * 7 to 9 hours on average per month

  * A bit higher in the weeks where I'm doing some large tasks for the
    month change checklist, such as password recall

  * A bit higher/lower in weeks based on whether they happen to
    involve more or fewer rounds of cooking than usual

* When there's upcoming or recent travel, health events, or
  significant stocking-up efforts:

  * 9 to 12 hours on average over the month

  * Apart from the sources of variation in steady state, additional
    variation between weeks based on how concentrated the health event
    or travel prep is

* During months of travel:

  * 12 to 15 hours on average per month

## General trends over time in regular/periodic tasks

### More time on food prep (particularly after reducing hours on day job)

My total time on food prep has been going up. This is primarily
because I have been substituting away from eating out toward having
food prepared at home. This includes both having less restaurant food,
and shifting away from prepped packaged food to self-cooked food.

#### Changes before going half-time

There weren't a lot of changes before going half-time. The main change
was the introduction of peas preparation to replace consumption of
microwaved foods like veg biryani and veg misal curry. This change had
a fairly modest effect on total time, since microwaving each dish did
end up taking almost as much time as the peas prep.

#### Changes after going half-time

Prior to going half-time, the main meal prep I used to
do was mixed vegetables prep and peas prep. Since the peas were
already shelled, the peas prep was just putting them on the pot for a
few minutes -- no elaborate preparation needed. A few months after
going half-time, I introduced potatoes into my cooking, so that the
peas prep was now expanded into a potatoes-and-peas prep. This prep
did reduce the frequency of my mixed vegetables prep a little bit, but
it also had the effect of eliminating my takeout from Mehak Indian
Cuisine and reducing the frequency of my takeout from Udupi Palace.

Also, for parts of 2023 (after my wisdom tooth removal) and then for a
few months in 2024, I switched from tortillas to rice. While rice
doesn't require a lot of prep time, it is still more than eating
readymade tortillas.

In April 2024, I also started doing occasional lentils prep. Like
rice, lentils don't require a lot of prep time, but there are still
several steps (soaking, cooking, cleaning the dishes).

Overall, I think the changes after going half-time have added about
2 to 3 hours per week to my meal prep time, while reducing
untracked time picking up takeout from restaurants, though this
untracked time was likely under 45 minutes per week (for instance, the
Udupi Palace pickup was streamlined with the Trader Joe's shopping, so
reducing the frequency of Udupi Palace pickup saved me only a modest
amount of time).

Let's say an increase of about 2.5 hours overall in time tracked
during meal prep.

#### Note on where the time is tracked

Starting January 2024, I've been multiplexing meal prep quite a bit
with watching educational videos, particularly Ninja Nerd videos, so
not all my cooking time shows up as cooking time. I'd estimate that
about 1 hour of the 2.5 hours of additional time gets absorbed into
the other activities bucket, so that only the remaining 1.5 hours
actually adds to the personal chores bucket.

### Month change checklist introduction and expansion

#### Initial iteration

I first put together my [month change
checklist](../month-change-checklist.md) in July 2022, also making a
private version with additional tasks that mostly count as personal
chores (the public checklist's tasks include many under personal
projects and personal finances).

The initial version of the private checklist was focused on tasks
around account recovery, emergency contact recall, and password
recall, and I've been doing them relatively consistently, at least
since November 2022 when I started systematically recording execution.

#### Expansion in June 2023 to include cleaning tasks and other tasks

In June 2023, as I was adjusting to the increased time available after
going half-time, and also noticing that my rather *ad hoc* approach to
house cleaning would result in some parts getting dirty over time, I
updated the month change checklist to include a bunch of tasks related
to cleaning, recycling, etc. For cleaning tasks, addition to the month
change checklist increased my average frequency of execution. For
stuff like recycling and trash, the average execution frequency didn't
change much, but the tasks were more regularized so that I didn't need
to "keep thinking about them" to get them done.

I also included a bunch of other tasks related to backups, checking
things on my machines, etc.

#### Addition of many more skippable tasks in May 2024

In May 2024, I added a bunch of additional tasks, most of them
skippable. The tasks included stuff related to health tracking as well
as tracking of stuff related to my devices. My goal with using the
month change checklist was to remind myself to consider doing them
once a month. Many of these were things that I was often ending up
doing about once a month, but then might occasionally forget for
several months. Putting them on the month change checklist made sure
that the decision to not do it in a given month was a deliberate
decision to skip.

#### Overall time trajectory

Overall, the time spent on month change checklist tasks has been going
up, with discrete jumps at the three points mentioned above, but in
many cases I was already spending a lot of that time outside of the
context of month change checklists. Generally, many of the items are
skippable, so I tend to do them more in months that are otherwise
lighter, so the general trajectory of increase isn't necessarily seen
month-to-month.

Also, some stuff has actually ended up costing less time after
becoming part of the month change checklist. For instance, toiletries
shopping is much more streamlined now as I check stocks monthly and
buy all the toiletries together, so I make fewer trips and stock up
more comprehensively.

### Scheduled tasks (at frequency lower than a month)

I've gradually been adding scheduled tasks to make sure I don't forget
to do things. Some of these are for things I remembered and did most
of the time anyways -- for instance, quarterly toothbrush change,
6-monthly change to water filter -- so putting them on calendar just
reduced the risk of a slight delay due to forgetting. Others are
things where I am trying to do them more frequently now, including a
variety of cleaning tasks that aren't important enough to do
monthly. An example is a vinegar cleanse of my stainless steel pot; I
had done it once in late 2020 and once in May 2024, and then decided
to schedule it to be done quarterly.

The overall time trajectory here is upward, but averaged out it's less
than 15 minutes per week, with 0 in the median week and maybe 30-60
minutes in the weeks where there is work.

## One-offs

### Travel and travel checklist prep

As I had not traveled for quite a long time, the 2024 India trip
required a fair amount of planning, and I also doubled down by using
the opportunity to refine my travel-related checklists so that future
travel would not require that much planning. I would say that the
India trip prep took up nontrivial portions of my time in September
2023 and October 2023, small portions of my time in November 2023 and
December 2023, and then nontrivial portions in January 2024 and the
first half of February 2024. Bureaucracy during the trip took up a
decent share of the trip time from mid-February 2024 to mid-March
2024, and then after my return, trip-related wrap-up and restocking
took up some of my time till the end of March 2024. For future trips,
I expect substantially less time because all the time will just be
spent on actual execution rather than general research and checklist
preparation.

For the Portland trip (June 3 to June 7, 2024) I started prepping two
weeks before the trip. This did end up taking a decent amount of time,
but most of the time was counted towards day job. However, some
general travel research and streamlining was counted towards personal
chores. I benefited a lot from research done for the India trip, but
there were some new angles to research, particularly around Portland
the city, and managing food while staying in a hotel.

### Health events

The [2023 wisdom tooth
removal](https://github.com/vipulnaik/diet-exercise-health/blob/master/events/2023/2023-wisdom-tooth-removal.md)
was a major event, both in terms of prior preparation and in terms of
handling of the complications from antibiotic use. However, at least
the original events (though not the complications) were planned.

Being half-time made it easier for me to take on the wisdom tooth
removal, as I was able to continue working half-tme despite the
complications of the wisdom tooth removal.

Also to note: wisdom tooth removal is now *done*. It won't happen again.

The [2024-04-25 abdominal
pain](https://github.com/vipulnaik/diet-exercise-health/blob/master/events/2024/2024-04-25-abdominal-pain.md)
and the subsequent [2024-04-30 urgent care visit and
tests](https://github.com/vipulnaik/diet-exercise-health/blob/master/events/2024/2024-04-30-urgent-care-visit-and-tests.md)
were unplanned events that ended up increasing my time on personal
chores quite a bit -- both in terms of the direct time costs involved,
and in terms of additional actions around event recording and food
prep. I have made a bunch of process improvements that should make
future incidents of this sort less taxing on me in terms of research
time and money, as well as allow me to recover faster.

