title:	Vipul personal projects priorities | week of 2024-03-18 to 2024-03-24
state:	OPEN
author:	vipulnaik
labels:	
comments:	0
assignees:	vipulnaik
projects:	
milestone:	
number:	1508
--
This is an experimental issue structure that I might make in specific weeks where I have a lot of personal projects items with mutual dependencies, and I want to make some progress on them. I'll still make the usual issues for daily updates, but will also check boxes here as I finish the relevant items. This list may not capture everything I end up doing under personal projects.

## Devops stuff (this is a quasi-blocker to subwiki stuff)

- [ ] Upgrade MediaWiki for calculus subwiki (to 1.35) and get the Widgets extension back up and running; this will fix the breaking of the widget on existing pages, and make me more comfortable editing and expanding those pages
- [ ] Upgrade MediaWiki for learning subwiki (to 1.35) and make sure its status is clean

## Subwiki stuff

- [ ] Work on calculus subwiki (there is no fixed agenda, but I have the idea of updating some pages, such as "point of local extremum implies critical point", to match the standard set by other pages such as "product rule for differentiation)
  - This is quasi-blocked by the calculus subwiki upgrade.
- [ ] Work on learning subwiki (I have a long list at https://learning.subwiki.org/wiki/User:Vipul, as well as some nascent ideas around sub-directions within those pages)
  - This is quasi-blocked by the learning subwiki upgrade.

## Wikipedia stuff

- [ ] Work on the "Streamlined Filing Compliance Procedures" page from https://github.com/vipulnaik/working-drafts/blob/master/wikipedia/pages-to-create.md and potentially work on some of the other tax-related pages
  - This is not blocked on anything per se, but I'm likely to prioritize the devops stuff over it; I'm fine if this gets pushed to next week due to subwiki stuff taking precedence!

## What I will likely be able to do

This week is still busy with residual post-trip tasks as well as some meetings with people that have landed on this week as I couldn't do them easily while in India. I also want to budget time for catching up on work. So, I don't realistically expect to do everything in my personal projects priorities.

Most likely it'll be:

* 1 to 2 MediaWiki upgrades
* 1 to 2 of the three tasks that are: the two subwiki editing tasks and the Wikipedia page creation work; which ones I pick will depend on my mood; how many I pick will also depend on my total time available


